Initial Docs (#70)
streamshub/flink-sql: docs/installation.adoc

= Installation

> == Flink Kubernetes Operator

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Installing the Flink Kubernetes Operator
```

> == Flink Kubernetes Operator

Reviewer: do we need both titles if we're just covering installing the operator here?

Author: Good point, I removed this title and reduced the level of the others

> In order to be able to deploy Flink SQL jobs the https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-kubernetes-operator-docs-main/[Flink Kubernetes Operator] needs to be installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to be able to deploy Flink SQL jobs the https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-kubernetes-operator-docs-main/[Flink Kubernetes Operator] must be installed.
```

[source, bash]
----
kubectl create -f https://github.com/jetstack/cert-manager/releases/download/v1.15.2/cert-manager.yaml
----
[source, bash]
----
kubectl wait deployment --all  --for=condition=Available=True --timeout=300s -n cert-manager
----

=== Flink Kubernetes Operator Installation

First add the `+helm+` repository, if you haven't already:

[source, bash]
----
helm repo add flink-operator-repo https://downloads.apache.org/flink/flink-kubernetes-operator-1.10.0/
----

Then install the helm chart for operator 1.10:

[source, bash]
----
helm install flink-kubernetes-operator flink-operator-repo/flink-kubernetes-operator \
--set podSecurityContext=null \
--set defaultConfiguration."log4j-operator\.properties"=monitorInterval\=30 \
--set defaultConfiguration."log4j-console\.properties"=monitorInterval\=30 \
--set defaultConfiguration."flink-conf\.yaml"="kubernetes.operator.metrics.reporter.prom.factory.class\:\ org.apache.flink.metrics.prometheus.PrometheusReporterFactory
 kubernetes.operator.metrics.reporter.prom.port\:\ 9249 " \
-n <operator-namespace>
----

=== Deploying Flink jobs in other namespaces

> The helm installation will create the required service, role and role-binding to run Flink jobs in the defined operator namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The helm installation will create the required service, role, and role-binding to run Flink jobs in the defined operator namespace.
```

> The Flink Kubernetes operator, by default, will watch all namespaces in the Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Flink Kubernetes Operator, by default, watches all namespaces in the Kubernetes cluster.
```

> However, to be able to to run Flink jobs in a namespace other than the operator's namespace, you will need to create a service account with the required permissions in that namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run Flink jobs in a namespace other than the operator's namespace, create a service account with the required permissions in that namespace.
```

> The https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-kubernetes-operator-docs-stable/docs/operations/rbac/[upstream documentation] covers the RBAC design and requirements for the Flink Kubernetes operator in detail. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-kubernetes-operator-docs-stable/docs/operations/rbac/[Flink documentation] covers the RBAC design and requirements for the Flink Kubernetes Operator in detail. 
```

However, you can find an example service, role and role-binding in the `+install/namespace-rbac+` directory which you can use to setup a new application namespace:

[source,bash]
----
kubectl -n <application-namespace> -f install/namespace-rbac
----

> This will create a `+flink+` service account that you should reference in your `+FlinkDeployment.spec.serviceAccount+` field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This creates a `+flink+` service account that must be referenced in the `FlinkDeployment` resource using the `+spec.serviceAccount+` property.
```
